Math 106		Review sheet and sample test 1			8 Sep.

Test 1 is Th. 16 Sep. The topics for the test are from sections 9.1, 9.2,
9.3 and class notes.

Ch. 9 The derivative
Define the average rate of change of a function over an interval.
Find the average rate of change of a function over an interval.
Give a geometric interpretation for the average rate of change of a function 
    over an interval.
Find the secant line for a function over an interval.
Define the difference quotient of a function at a point.
Find the difference quotient of a particular function at a point.
Define the instantaneous rate of change of a function at a point.
Find the instantaneous rate of change of a particular function at a point.
Distinguish between average rate of change and instantaneous rate of change of
    a function.
Describe a technology tip to estimate the instantaneous rate of change of a
    function at a point.
Numerically estimate the instantaneous rate of change of a function at a point.
Use the derivative notation to describe the instantaneous rate of change of a
    function at a point.
Find the equation of the tangent line of a function at a point.
Approximate the derivative from a table of data.
Explain the meaning of the statement that "near a point ( a, f(a) ) a function f
    is close to its tangent line at that point."
Illustrate graphically that a particular function at a particular points is 
    close to its tangent line
Give a graphical interpretation of the average rate of change of a function at 
    a point.
Give a graphical interpretation of the instantaneous rate of change of a 
    function at a point.
Find the derivative of a particular function with a four step process,
Interpret the meaning of the derivative for a particular applied problem.

Know that the limit of ( 1 + x )^(1/x) as positive x approaches 0 is the 
number e.

Use your graphing calculator to find an appropriate model for a set of data.
Explain the significance of R^2.
Make a business decision from a mathematical model associated with a set of
    data.

Review sheet for the test
The test questions will be similar to uncollected problems assigned from the
textbook and problems in MyOpenMath. You should be able to do all of the 
uncollected problems. One way to study for the test is to make up a 
personalized review sheet. You may not use your review sheet for the test.

Bring a graphing calculator, graph paper and paper to the test.

Math 106 Sample Test 1
Answer all problems. Show all work. Briefly explain your work.

1. Do p. 606 #7. 
2. Do p. 606 #13.
3. Do p. 607 #21. 
4. Do p. 623 #9. 
5. Do p. 624 #33. 
6. Do p. 638 #5. 
7. Do p. 638 #11. 
8. Do p. 638 #21. 
b. Plot the data on graph paper.
c. Name an appropriate model for the data. Find that model.
d. Use the data to estimate the instantaneous rate of change of wages per year
   in 1997.
e. Use the model to estimate the instantaneous rate of change of wages per
   year in 1997.
f. Compare the two answers. Which is more accurate? Why?
9. Find the derivative of f( x ) = -3x^2 + 5x - 8 by algebra. That is, find
   the difference quotient ( f( x + h ) - f( x ) ) / h.