Math 107		Review sheet for test 2			5 Oct.

Test 2 is Wed. 9 Oct. The topics for test 2 are from sections 2.1 and
sections 3.1 - 3.3, 3.5, 3.6 of the text. You may also need some topics 
from the first test.

I will hold an optional review session Tu. 8 Oct. at 2 PM in CW 320.

Sec. 2.1 Cartesian coordinate system
Describe the Cartesian coordinate system.
Define a quadrant.
Find the quadrant of a particular point.
Graph an equation by completing a table of values.
State the distance formula for two points in the plane.
Find the distance between two particular points in the plane.
State the midpoint formula for two points in the plane.
Find the midpoint for two particular points in the plane.

Sec. 2.6 Circles
State the standard form for the equation of a circle, with center ( h, k )
    and radius r.
Graph a particular circle accurately on graph paper.
Complete the square for an equation of the form Ax² + Bx + Ay² + Cy + D = 0.

Sec. 3.1 Relations and functions
Describe a relation.
Describe a function.
Describe the domain of a function.
Describe the range of a function.
Find the domain of a particular function.
Find the range of a particular function.
Describe the vertical line test.
Evaluate a function at a particular point.

Sec. 3.2 Linear and quadratic functions
Describe a linear function.
Describe a quadratic function.
State the domain of a quadratic function.
Plot the graph of a quadratic function.
Describe the vertex of a quadratic function.
Find the vertex of a quadratic function.
Find the range of a quadratic function.
Solve a max/min problem for a particular quadratic function.

Sec. 3.3 Other common functions
For each of the following common functions state its domain, range and draw
        its graph for a real number a and positive integer n
    Power function p( x ) = ax^n 
    Reciprocal function r( x ) = a / x^n 
    Root function s( x ) = a x^(1/n)
    Absolute value function a( x ) = | x | = abs( x )
    Greatest integer function g( x ) = int( x )
Describe a piecewise function.
Graph a particular piecewise function.

Sec. 3.5 Transformations of functions
Describe a horizontal shift of a function.
Describe a vertical shift of a function.
Describe a reflection of a function in the x axis.
Describe a reflection of a function in the y axis.
Find the domain, range and plot the graph of a transformation of a common
    function using a horizontal shift, stretching or compressing, reflection
    and vertical shift.
Describe symmetry with respect to the y axis.
Describe symmetry with respect to the origin.
Note that these transformations apply to the 6 common trigonometric functions
    of sine, cosine, tangent, cosecant, secant and cotangent.

Sec. 3.6 Combining functions
Combine two functions with addition, subtraction, multiplication or division.
Define the composite of 2 functions.
Compute the composite of 2 particular functions.

Bring graph paper and paper to the test. 
Test 3 requires the use of a graphing calculator.


Math 107 Sample test 3
Answer all problems. Show all work. Each part counts 6 points.
Put graphs on graph paper.


Math 107 Sample test 2
Answer all problems. Show all work. Each part counts 6 points.
Put graphs of graph paper.
1. Do p. 204 #4.
2. Do p. 204 #10.
3. Do p. 204 #15.
4. Do p. 206 #35.
5. Do p. 303 #19. Plot the graph of the function.
6. Do p. 303 #27.
7. Do p. 304 #41.
8. Do p. 237 #46.
9. Do p. 305 #57. 
   State the domain of the transformed function. 
   Plot the graph of the transformed function.
10. Do p. 302 #15. Simplify your answer.