Math 110		Review sheet for test 1			3 Sep.

Test 1 is Th. 12 Sep. The topics for the test are from sections 10.1, 10.2 and
some of 10.3 of Stitz Zeager and your notes.

Sec. 10.1 Angles and their measures
Describe the measure of an angle.
Describe an acute angle.
Describe an obtuse angle.
Describe a right angle.
Describe a straight angle.
Describe complementary angles.
Describe supplementary angles.
Describe an angle in standard position.
Describe coterminal angles.
Draw a particular angle in the Cartesian plane.
Determine the quadrant of a particular angle.
Define a quadrantal angle.
Given a particular angle find coterminal angles.
Define pi.
Define radian measure.
Convert from radian measure to degree measure.
Convert from degree measure to radian measure.
Describe angular velocity.
Describe linear velocity.
Describe the relation between linear velocity and angular velocity.
Find the area of a sector of a circle with central angle of t radians.

Sec. 10.2 Cosine and sine
Describe the unit circle.
Define the cosine of an angle on the unit circle.
Define the sine of an angle on the unit circle.
For a particular point of the unit circle, find the cosine and sine of its
    angle.
State the Pythagorean identity.
Define the reference angle for an angle.
Find the reference angle for a particular angle.
Know the 45 degree 45 degree right triangle.
Know the 30 degree 60 degree right triangle.
Know the important points on the unit circle. (Figure on p. 724 of the text.)
Know what SOH-CAH-TOA abbreviates.
Know the equations of motion for constant angular velocity.
Solve a right triangle.
State the domain and the range for the cosine function.
State the domain and the range for the sine function.

Sec. 10.3 Six trigonometric functions and basic identities
Define the six trigonometric functions on the unit circle.
State the reciprocal identities.
State the quotient identities.
State the Pythagorean identities.
State the domain and the range for the tangent function.
State the domain and the range for the secant function.
State the domain and the range for the cotangent function.
State the domain and the range for the cosecant function.

Bring graph paper and paper to the test. 
You can not use a calculator on the test.

Math 110	Calculator free sample test 1
Answer all problems. Show all work. Each part counts 6 points.
Briefly explain your work.

1. Express 4 Pi / 3 in degrees.

2. Sketch the angle 225 degrees.

3. Find the area of the sector of a circle with diameter of 10 inches
   and a central angle of 2 Pi / 3.

4. A DVD has a radius of 2 inches and spins at 600 rpm. 
a. Find the angular speed in radians per minutes.
b. Find the linear speed in inches per second.

5. Find the values of the 6 trigonometric functions for the angle 11 Pi / 6.

6. Find all solutions to sin( t ) = -1/2.

7. Find all solutions to cot( t ) = sqrt( 3 ).

8. Find the exact values of the other 5 trigonometric functions if
   sec( t ) = 7 / 3 and t is in quadrant IV.

9. Find the exact values of the 6 trigonometric functions of the angle t
   if the terminal side of the angle t in standard position contains the 
   point ( -2, 3 ).

10. Do p. 737 #56.

11. State the domain and range of the secant function.